Fortunately, there are alternatives for our current technology can overcome its
limitations. The awareness of the looming limits has sparked a global initiative
to create alternate device technologies. There are indeed concrete solutions and
paths of scientific innovation to have more efficient and less-energy consuming
nanodevices. Conventional semiconductor devices use exclusively the charge of
electrons to generate, transmit and process information. The electron is a funda-
mental particle that plays a crucial role in many physical phenomena, including
electricity and magnetism. In the field of spintronics, researchers strive to ex-
ploit the spin of electrons in order to develop new technologies and devices. For
example, by controlling the spin of electrons, it may be possible to create more
energy-efficient transistors, memory devices, and sensors. The field of spin-
tronics also holds promise for applications in quantum computing, where the spin
of an electron can be used to represent a quantum bit, or qubit. In addition
to the spin, the electron has other properties that have been used in various tech-
nological applications, such as the spin-orbit interaction which causes electrons
to change their spin states and that can be exploited for use in data stor-
age and logic operations as well as other applications such as quantum
computing.
The discovery of graphene and other atomically-thin two dimensional mate-
rials opens the path to effectively control and tune the required properties
for disruptive technologies. Two dimensional materials such as graphene and
transition metal dichalcogenides (Transition Metal Dichalcogenide (TMDC)s) 
feature another way to control the so-called valley degree of freedom electrons dis-
play due to the crystal structure of the material. The valleys are characterized by
different electron spin and angular momentum states, and can be used to encode
and manipulate quantum information. The valley degree of freedom can
also be used to create new types of electronic and optoelectronic devices, such
as valley transistors and valley-based sensors. To exploit these exotic flavours
of spin and valley in devices, it is necessary to actively control their electronic
and magnetic properties at the nanoscale.
